---
title: KTH Continuous Integration Art Hackathon
date: 2019-05-03 00:00:00 Z
type: post
layout: post
description: We invite you to the first hackathon about art and continuous integration.
  KTH Students, professional engineers, and curious persons are welcome to join this
  first ever performance of software art based on continuous integration data.
link: Hackathon
id: hackathon
new: true
place: KTH Nuclear Reactor R1
date-str: Oct 14 2019
---

## The Concept: embody the extraordinary activity that occurs in a continuous integration server through visual and sound representations.

The goal is to build beautiful visualizations or sonifications of software execution (the execution of continuous build, test, analysis, packaging). These representations can be purely visual, for example using D3.js or P5.js to build beautiful images (still or moving) of the massive activity that happens in a CI. 

Inspirations for such visual structures can be found at the Whitney Museum. Representations can also be based on sound, through the sonification of the CI activity. Participants can be inspired by the sonification of the continuous activity of wikipedia. The participants will also have the opportunity to use the R1 organ to play the CI activity (it has a programmable MIDI interface).

## Technology

We use Travis CI as main source  of data. Travis CI provides different API end-points to  listen to their builds. Reference documentaion: [https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/developer/]()

In addition, CI artist Thomas Durieux provide a websocket server for easier use.
Websocket URL: <todo>
Code: [https://travis-ci.com/tdurieux/travis-listener/]()
Getting started documentation: <todo>


## Frequently Asked Questions

- **Do I have to know how to program to participate to the hackathon?**

    No. You can join an existing team and it is great to do statistics and data visualization based on the dump of Travis CI builds available here: [https://zenodo.org/record/2560966](https://zenodo.org/record/2560966)
    (small version: TODO)

- **Do I have to use Travis CI?**

    No, you can use another open CI API or CI dataset. The goal is to something fun or aesthetic with continuous integration data.  

- **Is there a specific goal that should be achieved at the hackathon?**

    The main goals is that all participants participants have fun with CI data. It would be great to create something artistic based on CI (something that may be called "software art" or in this case "CI art").

- **Can I start before the hackathon’s day?**

    Of course, feel free to start before and come with cool demo on Oct 14 2019 in R1. 
